# Company Layoffs Data, March 2020 - March 2023

I put together a SQL and Microsoft Excel project diving into companies layoffs starting at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic (March 2020) into March of 2023. I did the MySQL section based on Alex the Analyst's videos on the [Data Cleaning](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4UltKCnnnTA&t=1s&pp=ygUeYWxleCB0aGUgYW5hbHlzdCBteXNxbCBwcm9qZWN0) and [Exploratory Data Analysis](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QYd-RtK58VQ&pp=ygUeYWxleCB0aGUgYW5hbHlzdCBteXNxbCBwcm9qZWN0), while making my own dashboard based on the cleaned data (with some additional data cleaning). Here's the [original dataset](https://github.com/AlexTheAnalyst/MySQL-YouTube-Series/blob/main/layoffs.csv) that he provided us with in those videos.

I began by cleaning the data in MySQL, where I worked on removing duplicates values (days of layoffs where a specific company laid off people) after confirming them and moving them to a new table. I then standardized the data by trimming the data, consolidating industries with the same concept (three different Cryptos), and changing the date column data type to Date. I then replaced blank values with NULL values and replaced NULL values with appropriate values. Finally, I removed any columns that I had no intention of using and any rows that had both total layoffs and layoff % as NULLs.

I then continued using MySQL to do exploratory data analysis. I started by viewing the max value for total layoffs (12000) and layoff % (1), which led me to look into the company with a 1 in the percentage_laid_off column (bankruptcy, since 1 stands for 100 in this case). I then investigated which companies had the most total (Amazon) and average (Google) layoffs during this time. I decided to look into the start and end dates of this data, which was 3/11/20 to 3/6/23. I then saw how each industry was affected by layoffs, with Hardware having the highest average layoffs and Consumer having the highest total layoffs. A similar analysis by country showed that Netherlands had the highest average and the United States had the highest total. 

Continuing one, looking by year showed that 2020 was more impactful in the number of layoffs, 2021's layoffs were more potent, 2022 returned to 2020's form of high layoffs count and lower average layoffs, and the first three months of 2023 showed a combination of 2022's total layoffs and 2021's average size of those layoffs. Post-IPO companies were the most impacted during this time, and within that funding stage saw FAANG companies make up the Top 3 total layoffs. Company-Industry pairings saw that Consumer and Other were the two industries with companies that had at least 10,000 average layoffs during this time. The Rolling Total showcased monthly layoff totals changed over time, becoming larger near the end of the data. Finally, I saw the top layoff totals by a company in a year (Google, Meta, and Amazon were the Top 3), and the Top 5 totals by year (Amazon appearing twice).

I then moved this data into Microsoft Excel, where I did additional data cleaning. I realized I would be focusing more on total layoffs than layoff %, so I removed any row when the total_laid_off was NULL. Any other remaining NULL values were changed to Unknown and would be excluded from the graph where that data would be used. I also did Conditional Formatting for the total_laid_off based on the number of layoffs by a single company for a single day (orange for 100-999, yellow for 1000-9999, red for 10000+) and percentage_laid_off (orange for unknown, yellow for 0.75 - 0.99, red for 1). 

From there, I built out a bubble chart comparing the average Layoff % of a company to the millions of funds that it raised. I then made various Pivot Charts, including a line graph of the total layoffs over time, the total and average layoffs by Funding Stage, Industry, and Location, San Francisco's Layoffs by Industry (as they were the area with the most layoffs by a landslide), and the Top 10 companies by Total Layoffs.

Any feedback or questions are appreciated!
